# Minutes for the meeting of the OpenDreamKit Steering Commitee on the 26th of January 2016

The meeting was held at the University of St Andrews, at the occasion
of the WP6 meeting
[Knowledge representation in mathematical software and databases](http://opendreamkit.org/2015/12/08/WP6StAndrewsMeeting/)

## Attendance

Were physically present:
- John Cremona (JC): University of Warwick
- Luca di Feo (LDF): Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin
- Paul-Olivier Dehaye (POD): Universität Zürich
- Steven Linton (SL): University of St Andrews
- Ursula Martin (UM): University of Oxford
- Viviane Pons (VP): Université Paris Sud
- Nicolas Thiery (NT): Coordinator
- Michael Kohlhase (MK): Jacobs University Bremen
- Benoit Pilorget (BP): Project manager

Were able to participate remotely via hubl.in:
- Hans Fangohr (HF): University of Southampton
- Clément Pernet (CP): Université Joseph Fourier
- Martin Alnæs (MA): Simula Research Laboratory

Neil Lawrence (NL: University of Sheffield), Wolfram Decker (WD:
University of Kaiserslautern), Dima Pasechnik (DP, University of
Oxford), Marcin Kostur (University of Silesia), and Florent Cayré
(FC, Logilab) also attempted to participate; however the sound quality
was too low for them to follow the live discussion.

We used a pad on framapad to edit collaboratively the minutes, and a
[chat on gitter](https://gitter.im/OpenDreamKit/discuss) for
coordination and interactions with remote participants.

Partners not present were contacted during the day of the 26/01/2016
for their votes.

After the meeting it was discussed how to better organize future
meetings to avoid the technical difficulties. See the
[recommendations for organizing official meetings](https://github.com/OpenDreamKit/OpenDreamKit#recommendations-for-organizing-official-meetings)
in our instructions for participants.

## Adoption of final Consortium Agreement (CA)

[Supporting slides](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/SC-StAndrews_presentation_final.pdf)

BP announces that the CA is only missing the signature of the CNRS,
and that this should be resolved soon (update on 04/02/2016: resolved).

BP presents the consortium agreement

- Consortium bodies (p. 5; correction by HF to the meeting dates for
  Quality Review Board; validated by the committee: the board meets
  after each reporting period, not before. It REVIEWS deliverables
  after they have been delivered, and then we try to learn from that
  for the next set of deliverables).

- Deadlines to organize meetings (p. 6), quorum rules
- Minutes of meetings p. 8
- Role of advisory board and quality review board p. 11

## Brief progress reports for all sites

http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Kaiserslautern/

- [Université Paris Sud](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/ParisSud)
- [CNRS](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/CNRS)
- [Jacobs University Bremen](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/JacU)
- [Université Joseph Fourier](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/UJF)
- [University of Kaiserslautern](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Kaiserslautern)
- [Oxford](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Oxford)
- [University of Silesia](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Silesia)
- [University of Sheffield](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Sheffield)
- [University of Southampton](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Southampton)
- [University of St Andrews](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/StAndrews.md)
- [Université Versailles Saint-Quentin](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/UVersailles)
- [University of Warwick](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Warwick)
- [Universität Zürich](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Zurich)
- [Logilab](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Logilab)
- [Simula Research Laboratory](http://opendreamkit.org/meetings/2016-01-25-DKS/SteeringCommittee/ProgressReports/Simula)

Comments and discussions:

- MK: suggestion to add the "Database of strongly regular graphs" to
  WP6 would be a great idea. DP: ok. POD: the best way to integrate
  this is to create a GitHub issue for that, and to ask you to
  complete a survey.

- Discussion needed between WP4 leader and MK for D4.2 (structured
  documents) and D4.3 (MathHub.info)

- HF: For D3.1, it would be good to include micromagnetic virtual
  images/containers, or at least make sure that best practice is
  follewed either way. I have a student in Southampton who is
  interested in that. Who would be a good person for him to get in
  touch with? (@mvousden)

  LDF: I'll expand D3.1 to contain anything containerized; please, put
  @mvousden in contact with me through OpenDreamKit/OpenDreamKit#58

## Zürich partner situation (PO Dehaye position at the University)

POD: My contract as Assistant Professor at the University of Zürich
ends August 31st 2016. OpenDreamKit has 12(+1) person months planned
specifically for my salary months 12-24 (so it starts exactly when my
regular contract ends). Zürich is part of WP6, to lead one task ending
early, and helping up to month 24. I am the only ODK participant in
Zürich.

Potential problem: Zürich says they require PIs to be professors, and
it may not be possible to nominally extend my Assistant Professorship
even though the money is available, in which case they would not be
able to host me between months 12 and 24.

MK: an option might be for Bremen to host POD. In which case the money
would need to be transferred from UZH to JacobsUni. Of course this
requires a negotiation between ODK, UZH, and Bremen.

After discussion and vote, the Steering Committee agreed on the
following:

- POD's work is essential to the good process of OpenDreamKit; they
  need to find a way to keep POD in the consortium for months 12-24.

- Without POD there, Zürich would not be able to fulfill its ODK
  duties and would need to be shut down as an ODK partner.

- The SC gives the ability to the coordinator NT, POD, and MK to
  explore together the various options to try to keep POD among the
  consortium. In particular, the coordinator NT will get in touch with
  UZH (done). The administrative aspects will be investigated by BP
  with the UPSud administration and European affair services.

Expressed votes: JC, LDF, POD, SL, UM, VP, NT, MK, HF, CP, MA, FC; all positive.

## Boards

### Advisory Board

SL is in charge of setting up the advisory board.

Here is the
[preliminary list of potential members](https://github.com/OpenDreamKit/Participants/blob/master/AdvisoryBoard.md),
initiated at the Kickoff and expanded upon since them.
Participants are welcome to submit more names to the above list, and
specify whom they would feel comfortable contacting.

SL will send information soon to all partners to coordinate the
action, in particular for splitting the contacting work.

### Quality review Board

The quality review board will review the way the deliverables have been produced; with the aim of identifying good practice and weaknesses, and to share the lessons with the project to improve any future project work. The board will focus on selected deliverables and investigate those in detail rather than attempting a superficial inspection of all deliverables.

According to HF, four members are already part of this board. A fifth member would be welcome but not necessary.

## Deliverables submitted and next ones to come

See the status reports for the already submitted deliverables.

The slides contain deliverables due for June 2016.

UPSud asks to postpone "D3.2 Understand and document SageMathCloud backend code" to M18 
due to the delay encountered in recruiting the engineers.

## Data Management plan (DMP)

BP encouraged sites to complete the DMP with their own data
information. They can find help by looking at what other partnes have
written for their own data. For the first version of this DMP, only
simple short information is required.

MK: for the long run, and as a project, OpenDreamKit should have a
fundamental discussion on data. This includes in particular a
definition of the Data / Knowledge / Software and their
relations/unseparability in maths. The results of this discussion
could be included as a preamble in one of the later data management
plan documents.

The SC agrees that for the first version the information already
available is fully sufficient. The fundamental discussion can be made
for the second version of the DMP.

BP: short reminder (p.20) on publication recommendations.

TODO: copy the publication recommendation information to our main README.

## Finance and administrative issues/questions from partners

BP announced that UPSud will be leading an intern financial evaluation at the mid-term of the 1st reporting period (around May 2016). This is planned in order to correct some possible mistakes before the official check.

## Organization of meetings

- Yearly project meetings

  JacobsUni proposed to host the 1st yearly OpenDreamKit workshop
  provided all conditions are met.  Other partners are encouraged to
  propose themselves to host the next yearly meetings.

  A [poll](https://framadate.org/nXiD6xbbHtf13vbe) was created to
  organise the event.

- Large user meetings

  UPSud has already started to organise a meeting at the CIRM in
  Marseille which will probably take place at the end of 2017.  A
  meeting is planned at the ICMS in Edinburgh, for which St Andrews
  participants are encouraged to investigate.  The third meeting
  tentatively planned by Kaiserslautern must be discussed upon as
  well.

- Other Workshops

  Kaiserslautern must be contacted by VP in order to get more
  information about the 4 planned GAP-SINGULAR workshops, especially
  for the one that is supposed to happen in 2016.

- Advertisement meetings

  MK suggested that ODK takes more initiative to advertise the project
  to new communities, in particular working mathematicians outside of the inner CAS crowd. Examples of initiatives are a meeting on the annual Joint Maths Meetings, or the ECM/ICMS (Berlin July 2016; that is probably too late now), but also  overview articles in the Notices of the ACM/ECM, the Math Intelligencer, ...
  As proposed by UM and by VP, MK will provide
  contacts to VP in order to advertise ODK better.

## [Logo](https://github.com/OpenDreamKit/OpenDreamKit/issues/5)

MK suggested that the coordinator just take its favorite pick and be
done with it. NT will do it after a brief poll.

## Questions

- CP: to what extent can ODK fund people to attend, e.g. Sage Days?

  NT & VP: ODK can either fund ODK participants to attend relevant
  events, or fund external people to events that are organized by
  ODK. For example, Sage Days 70 in Berkeley was officially
  coorganized by ODK, and ODK funded the travel and accommodation of a
  couple external persons.